MTH 410: Class Preparation for Investigation 20 part 1
===============================================

## Overview 

In Investigation 19, we learned that the set of symmetries of an object, together with the binary operation of composition of symmetries, forms a self-contained algebraic system that obeys certain rules. In this Investigation, we build off of this to define the concept of a _group_, which gives structure to _any_ set of objects with a binary operation that behave similarly. Groups are the central object of study in this course, so this is a very important Investigation. 

We will begin by examining other sets with binary operations -- some of which are very familiar -- that obey the same rules as the set of symmetries with composition and use the properties they have in common to give a formal definition of a group. Then we'll distinguish _Abelian groups_ from non-Abelian groups and then build several examples of each, some finite and some infinite. We end this first part of the Investigation by looking at basic properties of groups, including Theorem 20.7 (Group Cancellation Law). 

## Learning Objectives in this lesson

+ CC.2: State and instantiate the definitions of the following terms: Group; Abelian group; finite/infinite order of a group; finite/infinite group; unit
+ CC.3: State the following mathematical results: Theorem 20.7
+ (CORE) M.2: Determine whether a set with a given binary operation is or is not a group. 
+ (CORE) M.3: Given a group (especially the standard examples of groups on page 285), do the following: identify the identity element; identify the inverse of a given element; perform operations in the group; determine whether it is Abelian; determine its order; and describe its group of units. 

## Resources for learning

To prepare for the activities and for class, please read __pages 283--287__ in your textbook. This is Investigation 20 from the beginning through "Basic Properties of Groups". We will eventually read all the way through this investigation, so if you want to read through to the end, that wouldn't be a bad idea. 

## Activities 

Work each of the following out neatly in your notes. You will not turn in these notes, but rather submit your final answers using the Google form located at [http://bit.ly/1ArO8uH](http://bit.ly/1ArO8uH).

Go to the Google form whose link is above. There, you will look at 11 different sets with binary operations and determine which properties are satisfied. (This is basically Preview Activity 20.1 with a little remixing done.) Check all the boxes that apply and, in your notes, draft out explanations for your responses. Also make sure to compare all these sets with operations, together with the set of symmetries of an object with the operation of symmetry composition, to see what properties are held in common. 

Finally: What specific mathematical questions do you have about the material in this lesson? Think of these, and then go to the Google Doc linked to the response form and leave/upvote a question. 