MTH 410: Class Preparation for Investigation 19
===============================================

## Overview 

We begin our study in MTH 410 with a phenomenon that occurs with great frequency in everyday life, namely the _symmetry_ of objects. We all have an idea of what symmetry means, but you may not realize that symmetries of an object possess some interesting patterns and forms that are worth studying mathematically. In this investigation, we'll classify the symmetries of regular polygons and other simple figures and think about their _composition_; and finally notice that the set of symmetries of an object, together with composition of symmetries thought of as a binary operation, form a certain self-contained system that we can study mathematically. 

## Learning Objectives in this lesson

+ CC.1: State and instantiate the definitions of the following terms: Rigid motion; symmetry
+ (CORE) M.1: Create or complete an operation table for symmetries of a figure. 

## Resources for learning

To prepare for the activities and for class, please read __pages 271--278__ in your textbook. 

Most of the textbook is not text to read but rather activities to try. We will do some of these activities in class, so you should give these activities a try as you are reading. 

## Activities 

Work each of the following out neatly in your notes. You will not turn in these notes, but rather submit your final answers using the Google form located at: 

[http://bit.ly/179bpFC](http://bit.ly/179bpFC)

__Note__: When you arrive at class, one of the students will put his or her work up on the document camera and lead a discussion on the work. This is a "Class Prep presentation" as mentioned in the syllabus. A student doing a presentation will be asked to show detailed work as to how they got to their answers and field questions from the class on their work. A presentation is "successful" if the students shows sufficient work in the presentation and can demonstrate understanding through the presentation and through fielding questions. Your answers don't have to be right necessarily -- you just need to be able to intelligently lead a discussion on the exercises below. You are most welcome and encouraged to discuss your work with me in advance if you are presenting. 

1. Work through Preview Activity 19.1 on page 271, which asks you to identify all the ways in which the figure (a four-leaved rose) is symmetric and to describe those symmetries. Example: One symmetry of that figure is a 90-degree counterclockwise rotation. Another would be reflection in a line that goes between two of the leaves. (If you have a hard time seeing these, create a cut-out of the rose leaf and physically manipulate it instead.)
2. Starting on page 273, there is a discussion about writing symmetries of a regular octagon in 2x8 matrix that shows where each vertex is mapped under a symmetry. The book shows the matrices for four different symmetries of the regular octagon, but there are several symmetries that are not shown. For example, another symmetry of the regular octagon is a 90 degree counterclockwise rotation about the center. In your notes, write down the matrix notation for that particular symmetry.  On the submission form, write down the _second row_ of the matrix you come up with. 
3. Now compose the symmetry you came up with in the previous question (90-degree rotation counterclockwise about the origin) with $r_V$, the reflection about the vertical axis -- _in that order_, with the rotation coming first and the reflection second -- and write the result in matrix format. In your notes, write down the matrix notation for that particular symmetry.  On the submission form, write down the _second row_ of the matrix you come up with.
4. Does the order of composition matter in the previous question? Explain. 

Finally: What specific mathematical questions do you have about the material in this investigation? Think of these, and then go to the Google Doc at the following link and either add a new question, or add to or upvote an existing question: 

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/191jr99i3u5o0HF6vBvu3LyeeoSlXuddIrEd7yMKVGh0/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/191jr99i3u5o0HF6vBvu3LyeeoSlXuddIrEd7yMKVGh0/edit?usp=sharing)